welcome to the very first ever episode
of equation strict I'm going to be
taking some of the most important and
most famous and useful mathematical
equations and then I'm going to strip
them down layer by layer and explain
each part as we go through so that by
the end of each episode we should fully
understanding so that I will equate a
mean and why it's so important what
better place to start them with my
favorite like my favorite ever equation
is this beauty the navier-stokes
equation written here in all its glory
it also happens to be one of the
millennium prize problems so these are
the seven greatest unsolved mathematical
puzzles or mysteries there still existed
in the year 2000 and the clay Institute
along with a group of mathematicians got
together and decided that they would
offer a million-dollar prize of solving
any of these problems and in the last 17
years only ones win souls microarrays
conjecture but this one having Stokes
equations say they still remain on sort
we don't fully understand them
mathematically now on this Ted I'm going
to be stripping this equation down layer
by layer so to begin with I'm going to
tell you what it represents the
navier-stokes equation models the flow
of any fluids that you can think of so
water air ice counts as a fluid it moves
slowly but it's still moving to think
about glaciers for example even ketchup
honey
mayonnaise they're all fluids
aerodynamics so Formula One racing cars
for example they do wind tunnel
experiments so it's a really really
important equation and it just has so
many applications that's why they're
spending more about it's just so
important because we push forward in all
of these areas so now we've stripped
back the first layer let's move on to
the second layer of the equation so the
navier-stokes equation is really just
Newton's second law in disguise
and it says that force is equal to mass
times acceleration if you have a ball
and it's new
moving with an acceleration the ball has
a particular mass and then it crashes
into a wall the force that that moving
ball impacts on that wall is given by
just the mass of the ball times its
acceleration for the third layer what
we're going to think about is a little
bit more about the individual terms here
in the equation so we start on the
left-hand side
the mass acceleration part basically
what this is saying is how does your
velocity change with time the experience
you probably have or acceleration would
be in a car so if you're you're going at
particular speeds and any speed up to so
you go from a road onto a motorway you
then go faster you accelerate it so your
velocity is changing over time so that's
all this term is saying is saying how
does the velocity of the fluid change
over time and then the right-hand side
of the equation you've got three
separate parts if this first part is a
pressure gradient a good way to think
about pressure is for example when
you're underwater you go diving on the
water and there's a higher pressure
because all the water above give you
some feeling there is so there's a high
pressure at the bottom of the sea and
then at the top of the sea there's a
lower pressure and so there's a gradient
there's a change in pressure as you go
deeper diving on the water so there's a
pressure gradient the second term on the
right-hand side of our equation is this
one which is stress or we can think of
it as internal forces so within your
fluid the sort of the little bits of
fluid of bumping and crashing into each
other and that's causing stress then
causing internal forces and then finally
the the end term here which is external
forces and this the the is to really be
anything you have a fluid and then if
you're squeezing it from the outside say
it's me
crushed by two walls moving closer
that's applying an external force
we've now stripped back three layers of
navier-stokes equation and we are down
to our fourth and final layer what's the
actual symbols and what the variables
mean in this equation and we're going to
begin on the left with the first
variable which is Rho a Greek letter
which is the density of the fluid it's
in some sense the mass so how heavy a
particular fluid is so air is lighter
than water salt water is heavier than
fresh water the next variable is teeth
here which is four times so hopefully we
all know what time is next up is one of
the main variables in the equation this
is U which is the velocity so velocity
is speed
Porter direction so how fast the fluid
is moving but plus the direction in
which it is moving and then moving on to
the right hand side of our equation for
three different forces pressure internal
external so pressure gradient the P here
is of course pressure hopefully when I
discussed gradient scrub and icy and
what pressure is
next up is another Greek letter we like
them in math mu and mu represents
viscosity you can think of it as how
thick and how sticky a fluid is so the
easiest example I can give you is Holly
very thick if you have it sort of hold
up spoons - it's really slowly pretty
sticky whereas water flows so you can
think of viscosity is how well the fluid
flows and the very final variable is s
which is force and this is very very
jumbled so the main example of the
external force they gave of gravity you
would just replace F with G which will
be gravity or whatever other force is
affecting your fluid and that's it
we've ripped back all four layers of the
navier-stokes equation so hopefully you
now
if you ever see this equation you have
an idea what it means and what each
little bit is trying to tell you five
fluids I'm not saying you can go and
solve it and get million dollars but who
knows it's the starting point I hope you
enjoyed it make sure to tune in to the
next one and of course make sure you
follow me you can find me on twitter
facebook and instagram at tom rocks
maths
thank you for watching